Subject:

Research faculty positions Open @ Tecnico – ULisboa (BIG ERA Chair Research Team)

Instituto Superior Técnico, University of Lisbon is seeking highly qualified candidates for two faculty positions to join the BIG ERAChair project funded by the European Research Area.

Positions will be available for the Assistant Researcher / Assistant Professor in Computer Science, to begin in early 2024.  The contract period for both positions is two years, and openings to create transition opportunities to tenure-track career positions are highly likely to open at Técnico by the end of the period.

Background:

The BIG ERA Chair (https://bigerachair.tecnico.ulisboa.pt/hiring/) is funded by the European Research Area through an ERAChair grant, a prestigious grant awarded to select research institutions in Europe. Through the BIG ERA Chair grant, Tecnico is launching a new world-class lab -- the BIG Lab.  Working across Tecnico in close collaboration with others across both the university and our external partners, BIG Lab's core aim is to deliver on the promise of decentralisation -— in particular blockchain and associated technologies -— in the delivery of sustainability and social good outcomes. BIG is developing an exciting interdisciplinary environment and creating a critical mass of researchers to investigate the technological underpinnings and role of decentralised and blockchain technologies.

Research Faculty Profile:

We are seeking strong candidates in any of the following areas of expertise:

    • Software Engineering, Programming Languages and Environments. We are
    particularly interested in candidates with a background in design and
    implementation of programming systems and software verification tecniques and
    tools for developing trustworthy decentralised applications.

    • Distributed Computing and Systems Security. We are particularly
    interested in candidates who have background in the building blocks
    of Blockchains, including but not limited to distributed consensus,
    decentralized distributed systems, and systems security.

Application requiremems:
    • A PhD in Computer Science or a related area;
    • A strong demonstrated record of accomplishment in research
      in any of the profiles mentioned above;
    • See required support documents below.

Benefits:
    • Assistant Researcher / Assistant Professor position with an invited contract of two
    years (openings to create transition opportunities to tenure-track career positions
    are highly likely to open at Técnico by the end of the period);
    • Competitive salary, corresponding to the salary defined by Portuguese
      legislation for Assistant Professors and Assistant Researchers
      in public universities;
    • Social benefits, access to the public health insurance system, to the health
      services of Técnico, and access to day care for children of IST employees;
    • Very light teaching load, providing opportunities to work with the most
      talented engineering students in Portugal.

How to submit your materials:

The candidate should send a short CV, the names of three references (who may be contacted at a later stage), and a statement of purpose describing background research activities and prospective areas of future research related to distributed ledger technologies and blockchain,

by email to:

luis.caires@tecnico.ulisboa.pt
http://web.tecnico.ulisboa.pt/luis.caires

Deadline for first phase submissions: october 15th 2023
