Dear Robbert,

On behalf of the ESOP Steering Committee, we would like to invite you to serve as Program Committee Chair of ESOP 2026, which is planned to take place April 2026, in Torino, Italy.

As you know, ESOP the European Symposium on Programming Languages and Systems, established 1986, is a reference conference of ETAPS, a confederation of four leading conferences on software science which yearly gathers some 600 researchers from all over the world.

At the ESOP SC we have been working towards continue strengthening ESOP as a reference PL conference, while increasing the quality and number of submissions.  In particular, since 2024 ESOP has two submission deadlines, a "Round 1" (new) deadline by the end of May, and the usual one (now renamed "Round 2") by the usual ETAPS deadline (early October).  Besides this, ESOP has also launched in coordination with TOPLAS a journal first (in "Round 1") and a journal after channel.

The number of submissions for ESOP 2024 was about 84 papers, and we hope to see some (even if moderate) increase for ESOP 2025, since the Round 1 already collected around 20 submissions. You may want to check the ESOP 2025 page, where all the detailed information and the typical time frame is summarised (https://etaps.org/2025/conferences/esop/). The current ESOP 2025 chair is Viktor Vafeiadis; for ESOP 2024 the chair was Stephanie Weirich.

Given the extra work load due to the double deadline model, you may consider appointing one or two associate chairs from your PC, of course only if you feel that necessary.

ESOP PC chairs join the ESOP Steering Committee for a period of three years. This is not a demanding task, and provides PC Chairs the opportunity to contribute to the further growth and development of ESOP.

Notice that this e-mail is an informal pre-invitation, if you accept, we will forward our nomination to the ETAPS Chair Marieke Huisman, who will the send an official invitation.

In any case, we really look forward to receiving your --hopefully positive-- reply.  That would be a great contribution for the community at large, and to ESOP in particular.

Many thanks,

Luís Caires, with Stephanie Weirich, Viktor Vafeiadis, Brigitte Pientka, Ilya Sergey, Nobuko Yoshida, Thomas Wies
